#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The efficiency of the Data Acquisition (DAQ) in the new DAQ system of the
 Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment for LHC Run-2 is constantly being
 improved.
 A significant factor on the data taking efficiency is the experience of
 the DAQ operator.
 One of the main responsibilities of DAQ operator is to carry out the proper
 recovery procedure in case of failure in data-taking.
 At the start of Run-2, understanding the problem and finding the right
 remedy could take a considerable amount of time, sometimes up to minutes.
 This was caused by the need to manually diagnose the error condition and
 to find the right recovery procedure out of an extended list which changed
 frequently over time.
 Operators heavily relied on the support of on-call experts, also outside
 working hours.
 Wrong decisions due to time pressure sometimes lead to an additional overhead
 in recovery time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To increase the efficiency of CMS data-taking we developed a new expert
 system, the DAQExpert which provides shifters with optimal recovery suggestions
 instantly when the failure occurs.
 This tool significantly improves the response time of operators and the
 success rate of recovery procedures.
 Our goal is to cover all known failure conditions and to eventually trigger
 the recovery without human intervention wherever possible.
 This paper covers how we achieved two goals - making CMS more efficient
 and building a generic solution that can be used in other projects as well.
 More specifically we discuss how we: determine the optimal recovery suggestion,
 inject expert knowledge with minimum overhead, facilitate post-mortem analysis
 and reduce the amount of calls to on-call experts without deterioration
 of CMS efficiency.
 DAQExpert is a web application analyzing frequently updating monitoring
 data from all DAQ components and identifying problems based on expert knowledge
 expressed in small, independent logic-modules written in Java.
 Its results are presented in real-time in the control room via a web-based
 GUI and a sound-system in a form of short description of the current failure,
 and steps to recover.
 Additional features include SMS and e-mail notifications and statistical
 analysis based on reasoning output persisted in a relational database.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
